## July 21, 2024

### Wabi-sabi and dotfiles

One of the things I love about computers and open-source software is that you
can customize *everything*. If you don't like how something looks or functions,
you can just tweak it to your hearts content. If the software doesn't offer a
config option for it (which is rare, as a lot of open-source software is
*extremely* flexible), you can always modify the source code yourself. There is
no end. In a world where I constantly feel overwhelmed by how complex things
are, and how little control I have of the world around me, this is a very
appealing respite.

I've recently found myself with a lot more free time than usual, and I've been
spending a lot of time customising my
[dotfiles](https://github.com/aronlebani/dotfiles). I've also been thinking a
lot about the Japanese philosophy of
[Wabi-sabi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wabi-sabi). By the work of the higher
powers that be, this
[article](https://arkadiuszchmura.com/posts/stop-perfecting-your-config) came
into my RSS feed the other day. It was a bit of a much needed slap in the face.
It talks about why we should stop spending so much time configuring everything,
and even delves into the deeper, more philosophical reasons for doing this.

There is a [counter
argument](https://buttondown.email/hillelwayne/archive/keep-perfecting-your-config)
to this. Which is only sort of a counter argument, in that it argues that
it's okay to spend time making tweaks which make you more productive, but not
to spend time making superficial tweaks such as colours and aesthetics.

I'm also a creative, and aesthetics are important to me, which makes this a
hard pill to swallow. Having an environment that appeals to me aesthetically
makes me happier, so surely more productive? But alas, the Wabi-sabi principle
applies specifically to aesthetics. There is beauty in inconsistency, in
imperfection. Some of my best art comes from the tightest of constraints. So
maybe I should embrace this?

I took a little advice from both articles - I stripped a bunch of stuff out of
my dotfiles which I don't need. I'm rolling with the imperfect defaults. I made
one final commit - [Wabi sabi
(7d5573d)](https://github.com/aronlebani/dotfiles/commit/7d5573d6ed7b1a209ec400af2dfe812181a2fa99).
My goal is to not make another commit for at least a month. Hopefully putting
this short story out into the world will hold me accountable to that goal.
